Servlets:

Servlets are java programs that run on web or application server.it runs inside servlet container.Servlets can take the request and acoordingly,give back
response.servlets generally handle http requests and responses.Servlets can generate dynamic pages.

before servlets,we had CGI-common gateway interface.it could also generate dynamic pages,but was not efficient .when a request comes,container
creates a new object of cgi for each request,but for servlet,when a request comes for the first time,container loads the servlet and creates 
it's object,calls init method .then container starts new thread for each request and calls service() of servlet in that thread.so only one 
object of servlet is called and efficiency is boosted.when we shut down server,container calls destroy method and servlet is destroyed.

so basically,a request comes from client (like browser) to server,the container inside the server recieves it and passes it to servlet's service()
or other methods like doGet().then we can pocess the rrequest and send the response by response parameter.

the container finds the configuration of servlet by web.xml,also called deployment descriptor .continer loads the servlet class by
the  the name of servlet we gave in web.xml.we also specify url pattern by which we can call servlet in browser.

container creates object of servlet by Class.newInstance() method which uses the default constructor of servlet.
-----Generic servlets------

Generic servlet is a abstract class that implements Servlet interface.it overrides all methods of Servlet interface except service method
of Servlet interface,instead it declares service() as abstract method.
Generic servlet is protocol independent and does not provide protocol independent features where we can't do some tasks like session tracking,
handling headers like get post etc and use cookies.
Generic servlet is generally extended by protocol specifc servlets classes like httpservlets.

---------Http servlets-------

Http servlets are http protocol specific.the http methods can be handled properly and specifically if we use http servlets.
in folder f2,i have handles get and post request without http servlet,but the problem is,request of any kind(get or post) is handled by
only serrvice method.if we want to have separate implementation of each method,we should use http servlets
when we extends httpservlets,we should try to avoid overring of service methods as service methods of servlet does the
job of identifying the method of request like get,post and invokes the required method like doGet for Get request etc. 
we should rather override doGet,doPost instead of service ,and provide our implementation in those methods.if we donont override
doGet , doPost etc. methods,then doGet,doPost of httpservlets are called which prints the error messages of get_method not
supported or post_method not supported.

---------servlet config---------

we can define some parameters in web.xml,which we may often change like driver name of database drivers.we cannot always make such changes
in servlet java file,as we have to recompile it and deploy again.we put those parameters in web.xml file.these parameters are passed by container
to servlet as configuration through init(). init() runs only once in its lifetime of servlet,so config are passes only once.
HttpServlet does only protocol specific tasks,it does not have init method and does not handle config.Generic servlet does it.
generic servlet has init method that takes ServletConfig as arguments.it also has no-argument init method which is empty and is called
from inside init(ServletConfug config).when servlet is instantiated,init(ServletConfug config) is called ,which in turns calls no-args 
init().no-args init is supposed to be overridden in our servlet to do intialization tasks,so is empty. init in generic servlet is defined as:

public void init(ServletConfig config) throws ServletException {
	this.config = config;
	this.init();
    }
public void init() throws ServletException {
}

if we overrride init(ServletConfig config),then generic servlet will not have reference to config,so the methods which uses config
will have null reference and we may get error if we use those methods.so we can do two things: first one is donot override init(ServletConfig config)
,just override no-args init() and place initialization code in it.you can get reference to config by getServletConfig(). the second one
is useful when we override init(ServletConfig config), we should pass the config to init(ServletConfig config) of generic servlet by
super(config).

----attributes:
we have attriutes classified in terms of scope:
context attributes: persists from deployment to destroy of servlet
session attibutes: persists throughout the session
response attributes: persists only for one request

note: --> the parameters and attributes are different things...please go through them and donot get confused

--------object creation-----

ServletContext object is created at the time of deployment-done only once i.e at time of deployment
ServletConfig object is created at the time of initialization of servlet before init is called.  - done only once i.e at first request
request and response object is created when the request is sent by client - done everytime when a new request arrives.


-------Thread safety of servlets-----

we know that servlet is instaniated only once on first request.on subsequent request the container spawns new thread that  calls service method 
of the object of servlet.when many threads are created at simultaneous request ,the issue of thread safety arises as multiple thread tries to
access the service method simultaneously.the local variables inside service method are thread safe as their different copy is made in
different thread,but the class level variables are not thread safe as they are common and shared by all threads.we have three solutions for it:
1) do not use class level variables where we need thread safety
2) use synchronized block
3) implement single thread model interface

see the article at:
http://www.javaworld.com/article/2072798/java-web-development/write-thread-safe-servlets.html

the context attributes are also shared between sevlets in same war file i.e same context.so they too are not thread safe as they are shared by 
all threads executing service method. now if synchronize the service method,we can stop two or more threads accessing the context attributes
through service methods,but we cant stop other service thread of other servlet in same context froms accessing those context attributes at same
time.so we can use synchronized block and set the lock on context object itself.as only one object of context is made for all servlets
in same war file,if one thread gets lock on context object neither another thread executing service of same servlet can access the context,nor 
a thread executing service of other servlet can access the context.this is est way to make them thread-safe,but we would crush the concurrency
at same time.so its a trade off .

-----------------cookies--------------

HTTP Cookies are little pieces of data that a web application can store on the client machine of users visiting the web application. 
Typically up to 4 kilo bytes of data.it can be persisted between the multiple client requests.

we can set textual info as value in cookie. we can set age of cookie in seconds in setMaxAge().if we pass 0,the cookie will be deleted.
cookies also persist even if we close the bowser.

Http Session:

Session Tracking is a way to maintain state (data) of an user. It is also known as session management in servlet.

Http protocol is a stateless so we need to maintain state using session tracking techniques. Each time user requests to the server, server treats the request as the new request. 
So we need to maintain the state of an user to recognize to particular user. 

this is achieved by the use of cookie.when the request comes for the first time form client,the container checks for the session id in request,
if not found container sends the session id in response and the session starts eventually.the session id which client recieves
from the container is stored as cookie in the browser.

the cookie is shared by servlets in same context i.e in same war file.thus a session is also available to all servlets in same context.

the time out for cookie can e set by passing the time interval in seconds as parameter in setMaxAge().

the time out for session can be set either in web.xml as:
<web-app>
.
.
.
.
<session-config>
        <session-timeout>
            10
        </session-timeout>
    </session-config>
</web-app>

to set timeout in servlet class,we can use method as: setMaxInactiveInterval(seconds).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





